---
title: How to Take Smart Notes
subtitle: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking
author: Sönke Ahrens
authors: Sönke Ahrens
category: Self-Help
categories: Self-Help
publisher: Sönke Ahrens
publishDate: 2022-03-11
totalPage: 212
coverUrl: http://books.google.com/books/content?id=QmBjEAAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api
coverSmallUrl: http://books.google.com/books/content?id=QmBjEAAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=5&edge=curl&source=gbs_api
description: "This is the second, revised and expanded edition. The first edition was published under the slightly longer title &quot;How to Take Smart Notes. One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking - for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers&quot;. The key to good and efficient writing lies in the intelligent organisation of ideas and notes. This book helps students, academics and other knowledge workers to get more done, write intelligent texts and learn for the long run. It teaches you how to take smart notes and ensure they bring you and your projects forward. The Take Smart Notes principle is based on established psychological insight and draws from a tried and tested note-taking technique: the Zettelkasten. This is the first comprehensive guide and description of this system in English, and not only does it explain how it works, but also why. It suits students and academics in the social sciences and humanities, nonfiction writers and others who are in the business of reading, thinking and writing. Instead of wasting your time searching for your notes, quotes or references, you can focus on what really counts: thinking, understanding and developing new ideas in writing. Dr. Sönke Ahrens is a writer and researcher in the field of education and social science. He is the author of the award-winning book “Experiment and Exploration: Forms of World Disclosure” (Springer). Since its first publication, How to Take Smart Notes has sold more than 100,000 copies and has been translated into seven languages."
link: https://play.google.com/store/books/details?id=QmBjEAAAQBAJ
previewLink: http://books.google.co.kr/books?id=QmBjEAAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=how+to+take+smart+notes&hl=&as_pt=BOOKS&cd=2&source=gbs_api
isbn13: 9783982438818
isbn10: 3982438810
reading date: "05.2025"
---
## Quotes & Notes ##
---
### Introduction ###
- "The quality of a paper and the ease with which it is written depends more than anything on *what you have done in writing before you even made a decision on the topic*...==key to successful writing lies in the preparation==."
- "Having a meaningful and well-defined task beats willpower every time.
	- %% we can't control willpower, and it depletes quickly. but we can change our environment %%
- Not *having* willpower, but *not having to use* willpower indicates that you set yourself up for success."
#### 1. Everything You Need to Know ####
- what's important:
	- the content
	- the argument
	- the ideas
- Having a clear structure to work in ≠ making plans about something
	- making a plan makes us inflexible, unmotivated
	- "we don't want to be dependent on a plan that is threatened by the unexpected, like a new idea, discovery - or insight."
##### Good Solutions are Simple - and Unexpected #####
- note-taking ≠ collecting thoughts
- note-taking = making connections & sparking new ideas
- "writing is not a linear process" 
- "Only if you can trust your system, only if you really know that everything will be taken care of, will your brain let go & let you focus on the task at hand."
##### The Slip-box #####
- 1960s, Germany, Niklas Luhmann
	- "I only do what is easy. I only write when I immediately know how to do it. If I falter for a moment, I put the matter aside and do something else."
- Needs both the right mind-set AND the right workflow
	- "It is about having the right tools and knowing how to use them"
##### The Slip-box Manual #####
1. Luhmann had 2 slip-boxes:
	- a bibliographical one → "references & brief notes on the content of the literature"
	- main one → "collected & generated his ideas, mainly in response to what he read"
	↳ ==The notes were written on index cards + stored in wooden boxes==

2. Shortly after, he would look at his brief notes & think about relevance for his own thinking & writing
	→ then write his ideas, comments & thoughts - placed it in main box
	→ restricted to one side, one card per idea (but sometimes added extra for extended thought)

- he made *transition* from one context to another → 그만의 생각을 했다.
3. he organised the notes abstractly, by numbers = LINKS
	- string of thought extended to notes 
		- e.g. note 22 and following one could be 23 or 22a
			- one example - 21/3d7a7 followed 21/3d7a6

4. Index - 1/2 notes, entry way for his line of thought/topic - # keywords
------
> "We need a reliable & simple external structure to think in that compensates for the limitations of our brains."
---
#### 2. Everything you Need to Do ####
To make a rough draft, you need:
- the ideas
- the arguments
- the quotes
- long developed passages
- complete w bibliography & references
- all this needs to be in order, sorted in chapters w descriptive headlines
##### Writing a paper step by step #####
1. Make fleeting notes
	- capture every idea that pops into your mind
2. Make literature notes
	- write → what I don't want to forget & what I might use in my own thinking/writing
	- Keep it short, be extremely selective, use my own words
3. Make permanent notes
	- Go through my slip-box before I forget → this has to be done within short-term of writing
	- and THINK
		- to develop ideas, arguments and discussions
			- Does the new info contradict, correct, support or add to what I already have/know?
			- Can I combine ideas to generate something new?
			- What Qs are triggered by them?

> Pretend to write it for someone else
> 	Full sentences, disclosed sources, make references, simple & succinct
> 	- throw away step 1, use step 2 into reference system then forget about them

4. Adding Step 3 to slip-box
	- a) File it either by: - place it behind most recent notes OR - placing it with more related notes
	- b) add links to related notes
	- c) link it to index (keywords) OR by making link to it that I use as entry point to a discussion/topic & this is linked to the index

5. Develop my topics, Qs, Research projects BOTTOM UP
	- What's there?
	- What's missing?
	- What Qs arise? 
- The more you become interested in something, the more you will read & think about it → ==this builds momentum!!!==
	- my interests will likely change over time = insight!

6. Look at what I've developed so far, then FURTHER develop
	- Then copy them into an outliner + put them in order
7. Turn the notes into a rough draft
	- DON'T COPY, *translate* into my own words
		- make it coherent, use it to build my argument
		- detect hole in your argument
8. Edit & proofread
#### 3. Everything You Need to Have ####
- "Focus on essentials, don't complicate things unnecessarily"
- "Good tools don't add features & more options to what we already have, but help to reduce distractions from the main work, which here is *thinking*"
##### The Toolbox #####
4 tools we need:
- Pen and Paper or ==Google Keep==
	- for fleeting ideas; process this within a day
- A reference management system (or ==Zotero==, Citavi)
- The slip-box (==Obsidian==)
- An editor (Word, LaTex, Google Docs - use one compatible with Zotero)
#### 4. A Few Things to Keep in Mind ####
- How not to make the slip-box, a thought graveyard = knowing how to HANDLE it ↓
### The Four Underlying Principles ###
#### 5. Writing Is the Only Thing That Matters ####
- "Studying doesn't prepare students for independent research. It *is* independent research"
- Wilhelm von Humboldt (founder of Humboldt Uni of Berlin)
	- "the professor is not there for the student and the student not for the professor. Both are only there for the truth. And truth is *always* public matter."
- "Truth does not belong to anyone; it is the outcome of the scientific exchange of written ideas."
- be deliberate in reading, writing and thinking
#### 6. Simplicity Is Paramount ####
- Always ask oneself, " In which context will I want to stumble upon it again?" when writing notes. NOT where to write them
	- All boils down to one thing, insights that can be published

Distinguish CLEARLY btw the 3 types of notes:
1. *Fleeting Notes*:
	- reminders of info
	- thrown out within a day or two
2. *Permanent Notes*
	- NOT thrown away
	- contains necessary info., in a permanently understandable way
	- stored in the same way, same place
3. *Project Notes*
	- only relevant to 1 particular project
	- kept within a project-specific folder
	- discarded or archived after the project is finished

↑ THIS can create the critical mass
#### 7. Nobody Every Starts From Scratch ####
- brainstorming isn't a good choice - neither objective nor reliable
- Writing is not linear BUT still needs a clear, reliable structure
#### 8. Let the Work Carry You Forward ####
- If we don't like doing something, we need to have a good experience with it → leads to virtuous cycle
- "Nothing motivates us more than the experience of becoming better at what we do"
- we need to have a growth mindset but also a continuous feedback loop
	- using a circular approach → # of opportunities to learn + correct mistakes
		- quickest test we can do = rewriting what we have read in our own words
	- learning needs to be latticework of mental models, not isolated facts
- productivity = dynamic btw our brains + slip-box
### The Six Steps to Successful Writing ###

#### 9. Separate and Interlocking Tasks  ####
##### Give Each Task your Undivided Attention #####
- constant interruptions (e.g. emails, txt msgs) = cuts our productivity by 40%, 10 IQ points dumber
- more sources of distraction = less opportunities to train out attention span
##### Multitasking is not a good idea #####
- multitasking is a myth
- we only shift our attention quickly from one thing to another = leads to fatigue
- Organise our workflow:
	- avoid multitasking
	- remove distractions
	- separate diff. kinds of tasks as much as possible so they won't interfere w each other
##### Give Each Task the Right Kind of Attention #####
- Role of Critic - proofreading
- Role of Writer - thinking of the appropriate words, outlining
- Role of reader

- We need flexible mindset - wide-open mind + analytical frame
	- BUT to have mental flexibility = equally flexible work structure is needed
	- making plans puts us on rails.
		- =="Don't make plans. Become an expert"==
##### Become an Expert Instead of a Planner #####
- "The moment we stop making plans is the moment we start to learn."
- academia & writing = gaining insight + making it public
- ==Experts== : knows all appropriate knowledge inside & out, and behave accordingly. It's like second-nature or *intuition*
	- =="Real experts, don't make plans"== - Flyvbjerg, 2001
##### Get Closure #####
- "It is always about understanding - and if it is only for the sake of learning"
	- %% 배움과 이해에 관계에 있어서, 우리는 주로 배우면서 이해를 해야한다고 생각한다. 하지만 사실 우리는 세상을 이해하기 위해 배우는 것이다. 목적이 바뀌어야 한다. 내가 이해하지 못하는 것을 이해하기 위해 배워야한다. 내가 주체가 되는 것이다. 반대로 무작정 배움을 먼저 추구한다면 내가 무얼 모르고 무얼 아는지 연결고리가 얕을 수 밖에 없을 것이다. %%
- our brain can't tell apart btw finished tasks + postponed and noted tasks
	-  use this!
		- write down and ruminate incomplete thoughts in casual settings
		- write down and leave space in our brain for current, most upfront issues
##### Reduce the Number of Decisions #####
- Like using uniforms, selective choice of clothes, always using the same notebook for making quick notes, always extracting the main ideas from a text int eh same way & always turning them into the same kind of permanent notes → work session ↓
#### 10. Read for Understanding ####
##### Read w a Pen in Hand #####
- "...reflect as much on what is *not* mentioned as what *is* mentioned."
- handwriting notes >>>> typing notes in terms of *understanding*
##### Keep an Open Mind #####
- to keep Confirmation Bias at bay:-
	- don't choose my hypotheses first. This should be the last step
##### Get the Gist #####
- take notes that are simple, but not simplified
##### Learn to Read #####
- talking about what we wrote helps us to confront our real understanding of the topic
- "The principles is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool," - Richard Feynman, 1985
##### Learn by Reading #####
- Pure re-viewing doesn't work - neither for learning nor understanding
- The key is ==elaboration==
	- writing for learning
#### 11. Take Smart Notes ####
##### Make a Career One Note at a Time #####
- making 'n' notes per day could really build-up!
##### Think Outside the Brain #####
- brain jumps to conclusion + likes to please use
	- need to counterbalance it:- 
		- "it is the distinction that makes all the difference when it comes to thinking"
		- %% "Distinction" - 각 개념의 의미를 둔다는 것에 중요성을 나타낸다. 모든 것에 나의 의미를 생각해보고 만들어내는 것이 나의 생각을 만드는 행위에 가장 중요하다. %%
- when I write something, think about "Why am I writing this?"
##### Learn by not Trying #####
- The whole reason we're learning is that for ourselves to have a mechanism in our memory where when the right cue is given, a right information can be accessed w/o given too much thought. 
	- easily accessible knowledge
#### 12. Develop Ideas ####
##### Develop Topics #####
- keywords/tags = "In which circumstances will I want to stumble upon this note, even if I forget about it?"
##### Make Smart Connections #####
- cross-reference btw topic notes
##### Compare, Correct and Differentiate #####
- Comparing notes w similar ideas = we can visually SEE the difference
##### Assemble a Toolbox for Thinking #####
1. Pay attention to what you want to remember
2. Properly encode the info. you want to keep; incl. thinking about suitable cues
3. Practice recall
##### Thinking inside the Box #####
- Creativity emerges when we can make connections
- "What if?" → to rediscover problems 
	- "What kind of answers can you expect from asking a Q in this particular way? What is missing?"
##### Facilitate Creativity through Restrictions #####
- less choice = ↑ productivity + ↑ freedom
- "without structure, we cannot differentiate, compare or experiment with ideas. Without restrictions, we would never be forced to make the decision on what is worth pursuing and what is not."
	- *indifference* is OUR ENEMY!!!
#### 13. Share Your Insight ####
##### From Brainstorming to Slip-Box #####
- easily available ≠ relevant
	- but our brain tends to think about things that are easily available in the moment
- Reading and writing, if done right, in itself is self-reinforcing.
- Questions are generated by writing!!!
	- and the good results can be only formed by trial-and-error, NOT planning
##### Getting Things Done by Following Your Interests #####
- our interests will change over time and our topics will change along the way
- work on different manuscripts at the same time
	- our thoughts could find connections btw diff. projects
- Luhmann - "When I am stuck for one moment, I leav it and do something else."
##### Becoming an Expert by Giving up Planning #####
- planning doesn't do much, esp. when only focused on outcome
- Most important = starting
- second most important = rituals
#### 14. Make It a Habit ####
- read with a pen in your hand
- take smart notes
- make connections btw them
## Summary ##
---

## Key Point/s ##
---


## Reflection ##
---

